Security has become a buzzword; every company wants to claim its product or service is secure. But is it?

Before we start discussing the different security principles, it is vital to know the adversary against whom we are protecting our assets. Are you trying to stop a toddler from accessing your laptop? Or are you trying to protect a laptop that contains technical designs worth millions of dollars? Using the exact protection mechanisms against toddlers and industrial espionage actors would be ludicrous. Consequently, knowing our adversary is a must so we can learn about their attacks and start implementing appropriate security controls.

CIA
Before we can describe something as secure, we need to consider better what makes up security. When you want to judge the security of a system, you need to think in terms of the security triad: confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA).

Confidentiality ensures that only the intended persons or recipients can access the data.
Integrity aims to ensure that the data cannot be altered; moreover, we can detect any alteration if it occurs.
Availability aims to ensure that the system or service is available when needed.

DAD
The security of a system is attacked through one of several means. It can be via the disclosure of secret data, alteration of data, or destruction of data.

Disclosure is the opposite of confidentiality. In other words, disclosure of confidential data would be an attack on confidentiality.
Alteration is the opposite of Integrity. For example, the integrity of a cheque is indispensable.
Destruction/Denial is the opposite of Availability.
The opposite of the CIA Triad would be the DAD Triad: Disclosure, Alteration, and Destruction.

Fundamental Concepts of Security Model
We have learned that the security triad is represented by Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability (CIA). One might ask, how can we create a system that ensures one or more security functions? The answer would be in using security models. In this task, we will introduce three foundational security models:

Bell-LaPadula Model
The Biba Integrity Model
The Clark-Wilson Model


Defence-in-Depth
Defence-in-Depth refers to creating a security system of multiple levels; hence it is also called Multi-Level Security.
Consider the following analogy: you have a locked drawer where you keep your important documents and pricey stuff. The drawer is locked; however, do you want this drawer lock to be the only thing standing between a thief and your expensive items? If we think of multi-level security, we would prefer that the drawer be locked, the relevant room be locked, the main door of the apartment be locked, the building gate be locked, and you might even want to throw in a few security cameras along the way. Although these multiple levels of security cannot stop every thief, they would block most of them and slow down the others.

ISO/IEC 19249
The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) have created the ISO/IEC 19249.

Zero Trust versus Trust but Verify
Trust but Verify: This principle teaches that we should always verify even when we trust an entity and its behaviour. An entity might be a user or a system. Verifying usually requires setting up proper logging mechanisms; verifying indicates going through the logs to ensure everything is normal. In reality, it is not feasible to verify everything; just think of the work it takes to review all the actions taken by a single entity, such as Internet pages browsed by a single user. This requires automated security mechanisms, such as proxy, intrusion detection, and intrusion prevention systems.

Zero Trust: This principle treats trust as a vulnerability, and consequently, it caters to insider-related threats. After considering trust as a vulnerability, zero trust tries to eliminate it. It is teaching indirectly, “never trust, always verify.” In other words, every entity is considered adversarial until proven otherwise. Zero trust does not grant trust to a device based on its location or ownership. This approach contrasts with older models that would trust internal networks or enterprise-owned devices. Authentication and authorization are required before accessing any resource. As a result, if any breach occurs, the damage would be more contained if a zero trust architecture had been implemented.

Threat versus Risk
There are three terms that we need to take note of to avoid any confusion.

Vulnerability: Vulnerable means susceptible to attack or damage. In information security, a vulnerability is a weakness.
Threat: A threat is a potential danger associated with this weakness or vulnerability.
Risk: The risk is concerned with the likelihood of a threat actor exploiting a vulnerability and the consequent impact on the business.
